From Hansel minutes.com. It's
Hansel minutes, a weekly discussion
with web developer and technologists.
Scott Hanselman. This is Lawrence Ryan
announcing show number two Oh
seven. Recorded live Thursday, March
18, 2010. Support for Hanselman
it's as provided by Telerik
rad controls, the most comprehensive
suite of components for windows
forms and asp.net web applications
online@wwwdottdlerik.com. In this episode, Scott
talks with developer and author
Charles Petzl about the windows
phone seven series. Hi, this
is Scott Hanselman and I'm
here at mix in Las
Vegas at the Mandalay Bay
resort and casino. And I'm
talking today with legendary author
Charles penciled, who has been
so kind to sit down
with me as I run
to the airport. How are
you, sir are great. I'm
great. I was, I was
thrilled to see you here.
And I noticed that you're
actually wearing a shirt that
says programming windows, phone seven
series. Yes, it's a new
book. This is, this is
why I'm feeling so great.
I am doing something I
love doing most of all,
which is writing a book
and it's about the new
windows phone and we're where,
and they're really using this
week. Microsoft is using a
mix to tell us for
the first time, tell the
public what, how you write
apps for the windows phone.
And that's cool for those
of the audience that may
not be as old as
I am. I not have
been doing windows since before
windows three, one. Tell us
a little bit about the
kind of the Seminole book
that you wrote and how
that, what, what did you
write that people know you
for sir? Back in 1987,
I began writing a book
that was eventually called programming
windows. And this was not
the first, but one of
the very first books about
how to write apps for
windows. When I began writing
the book, I was targeting
windows 1.0, by the time
I finished the book, I
was targeting windows 2.0 a
beta. I started getting beta
versions about halfway through writing
the book and they changed
some of the screen and
layout paradigms. I had to
go back and fix things
as I've had that experience
in writing books ever since.
And that book was published
in 1988, targeting windows 2.0
and that the sales were
slow. And then in the
early nineties, it went through
two more additions for windows
3.0 and windows 3.1. And
those are the additions that
people really know about to
this day. People come up
to me and say, I
learned windows 3.0 from your
book in 3.1 from your
book. So there was a
later edition for windows 95
and then windows 98. And
that's that fifth edition published
over 10 years ago. It's
still in print. Really, really
I'm still earning some royalties
from it. I still get
email from readers, mostly outside
of the U S at
this point, doing still doing
wind 32 API programming, which
is something I haven't done
for 10 years. Do you
consider yourself a technologist or
author? I like to think
of myself as an author
with a technology and math
background. I've, I've written 15
books. I think, I think
the total is 15. The
two books I'm proudest of
are the first is entitled
code, hidden language of computer
hardware and software, which is
about, it's basically a how
computers work book, how computers
work, but it's a unique
If I can actually stop
you because I wanted to
bring up COVID, I'm thrilled.
The code is one of
my Mo and I know
I realized that the audience
will realize that of course
have a Charles petrol fan
boy, but in all seriousness,
I started writing a book
called computer Zen a number
of years ago. And I
had a, I had the
audience imagine a two by
four of wood and put
light bulbs on it. And
then someone said, this book
has been written already. I
wrote about four chapters and
it's called code by Charles
pencil. And I, I actually
read that book and I've
given it as gifts. I've
used it as a teaching
syllabus and universities. It's just
a phenomenal book that takes
you from the bit to
the microprocessor. Thank you. It's
really one of my favorite
books and I encourage people
to check it out. Thank
you. And it has a
particularly innovative cover because it
has the word code in
Morris code braille and yeah,
it's, it's a, it's a
great book. I'm glad I'm,
I'm, I'm thrilled that you're
as proud of it as
I much enjoyed reading. Yeah.
In the first few chapters,
I use more as code
and braille as, as two
examples of binary codes that
preceded computers by Oh, a
good a hundred years, I
guess. So 15 books. And
the other one I'm proudest
of is the annotated touring,
which came out last year.
And it's a, a takes
touring Seminole paper on computability
that he wrote as a
graduate student in, in 1936.
And annotates the hell out
of it? Cause the paper
itself is only about 40
pages, less than 40 pages
total. And I provide a
lot of background to reading
the paper. The paper is
not easy to read. It
uses a lot of weird
symbols. You need to know
a little background of, of
why he wrote this paper,
but Turing was attempting to
solve a mathematical problem that
was posed by David Hilbert
and in, so he invented
a computer, an imaginary computer
that can process just a
very tiny number of instructions.
And yet has since been
proven to be equivalent to
the biggest supercomputer, except not
quite as fast. Now, one
of the things that I
like about, about your books
and one of the reasons
that I wanted to interview
was that I've always felt
when I was teaching in,
in, in, in university. And
then when I, when I
do, I guess you could
call it teaching, but these
little one hour and a
90 minute talks, that the
sense of historical context is
so often missing from both
technical presentations and from a
technical material that everyone thinks
that they've invented something new
and amazing. And in all
of your books, there's a,
there's a narrative that I
think kind of respects the
way we've come from and
where we've, where we're going.
I wonder if that's intentional.
Yes. I, I, I like
history. I've, I've enjoyed history
since I was in high
school. And I particularly am
intrigued by what's commonly referred
to as the prehistory of
computing. The, the most obvious
is, is Charles Babbage in
the 19th century who designed
something that, that if it
were built, it would be
probably the most impressive technological
feat of the 19th century.
Unfortunately it was never built,
but also things like the
invention of logarithms and some
analog computers that are very
interesting historically, that that predated
digital computers just there's. There
was a machine that was
built by Vannevar Bush called
the differential analyzer, which basically
solved differential equations, but did
so using a bunch of,
of, of Holies and wheels
and stuff. And it's just
amazing. There's actually, you can
see a little glimpse of
the differential analyzer in a,
I don't have the title
of it. I there's a
science fiction film from the
early fifties that, so it
really existed. They built it.
Oh yeah, yeah. This was,
this was built. This was
built in the 1920s at
Harvard. I may have all
my details wrong or MIT
readers. Our readers will correct.
Your we'll make sure that
we put links in the
show notes. Alright. And this
was, this was used a
great deal for solving differential
equations. As I get older,
as I approach approach 40,
I'm starting to feel like,
and I always refer to
this kind of archetype as
the old guy with the
beard. When you're a programmer,
you have to get that
good beard going before you
can really get the big
money, just like the 19th
century scientists. Yeah, exactly. Until
you've got a long white
beard, they won't respect you
when you go to parliament,
make your proclamation. Is this
because of an increased sense
of I've seen this before
that I'm feeling, am I
getting a sense of deja
VU that has caused you
to become cynical? Someone like
you who have seen it
from the very beginning to
now, are you cynical or
excited? It's in theory, I
should be very cynical about
all this stuff, but I,
I, by the time.net was
introduced to which I guess
I first started fooling around
with it in the year
2000. Does that sound right?
I was pretty tired of
API programming and I really
welcomed a good object oriented
interface to windows. You might
be thinking, what about MFC?
Well, I never really got
into MFC. And one reason
why is that? I didn't
particularly like C plus plus
as a language, it always
looked ugly and clunky to
me. And because it was
basically glommed on to C,
which was always to me,
a very elegant language and
MFC also itself seemed to
be a very light wrapper
on the API. I really
couldn't see a big advantage
to MFC at that time.
I liked WinForms windows forms,
which was introduced in.net 1.0
a lot better. And then
when I started seeing the
betas of what became windows
presentation foundation, I liked that
a lot. And I think
that that to me, WPF
is industrial strength, windows programming.
So, but two questions about
WPF. And that one is
when I first saw XAML.
I said, Oh, it's resource
files again, they're more proposed.
Right? And then my second
question is why is it
so hard to learn? Why
is the, is it the
number? Is that concept count?
Or is it that we
haven't found the right narrative
is the hard to learn
or just sitting down and
busting out? XAML I remember
the first time I tried
to learn HTML tables. I
think I spent about three
days and then one day
it clicked and now I
can make a table. Of
course that's no longer a
useful skill. Now it's something
else. I think, I think
SAML is, is somewhat similar
in that respect. There are
some conceptual and syntactical oddities
of XAML. I'm thinking of
property, property elements, syntax, where
you define a, if a
property cannot be expressed, if
the value of a property
cannot be expressed in a
texture and you need to
break out the properties or
property element as separate tags
and then define the property.
Like, so I remember my
pain and confusion and encountering
this syntax for the first
time. So when I'm writing
about Zama, like take special
care to discuss this syntax,
to pointed out how weird
it is, how it almost
looks like an extension to
XML. And it's really not.
It's almost seems very kind
of a verbose, but we
haven't created a designer yet.
Although maybe blend is getting
close so we can truly
hide it. It feels like
when we did front page
and HTML, you know, you
could tell when someone wrote
their HTML with a designer,
it's a, to me XAML
is not verbose because if
you, if you put XAML
side by side with the
equivalency sharp code, that's AML
is shorter. And almost all
the cases, even with the
O C sharp is getting
close with the, the new,
the new syntax where you
can use angle brackets and
define the properties when you're
constructing an object. But the
XAML is usually more concise.
I have all of the
XAML that I have published
in books and articles. I've
handwritten. I have been, I
am one of these people
who is extremely reluctant to
have tools, even visual studio,
even visual studio generate SAML
for me. So I plus
I have not come across
a good way of, of
teaching people, how to program
by pulling controls over onto
the surface of a window.
That to me is not
programming. I, I want to
focus on the syntax and
I want to get programmers
accustomed to writing this stuff
for themselves. So when they
eventually go to expression blend,
which they will, I have
no doubt of that. They'll
at least understand what it's,
what it's generating. Also, I,
I do a little consulting.
I, I, unfortunately I do
more consulting these days and
I have needed to in
the past, I, I, I
worked on a WPF kiosk
app that they used, obviously
used expression blend to generate
some, a bunch of animations.
They had this thing where
you had a bunch of
tiles on the screen. And
when you picked one, it
got bigger. The others got
smaller. They moved around a
bit. Somebody had gone into
expression, blend and defined individual
animations for all these things.
And of course you had
to have a dozen different
variations of because there were
12 different tiles. So when
each tile got bigger, the
others got smaller and move
to unique places around the
screen. This was pages and
pages and pages of XAML
animation. All of which I
threw out and replaced with
a custom panel, which to
me was the obvious way
to go. And it took
about a day and a
half of work. They had
slotted about two weeks of
work for me on this.
I was finished in a
day and a half with
a custom panel that, that
applied all the animations in
code that were needed. It's
relying on XAML generation tools
and other tools can be
very dangerous unless you really
know what's happening unless you
know what's happening. And, and
if you have to, you
have to learn how to
write it by hand first,
and you have to know
the right way to do
things. And you, you, you
kind of allude to an
interesting point that I've always,
I've never really got a
good satisfying answer to, which
is the, when do I
use Danila? When do I
use code? Because initially when
this was introduced, there was
almost this sense of, I
should feel guilty or bad
if I somehow have to
drop into code behind it,
like you should be able
to do these amazing things
in SAML. So you just
said a custom panel. Did
you write code behind to
help you, that guys are
custom panels are written entirely
in code there's no XAML
involved with that. Another thing
I've seen is that programmers
no longer who have been
working with WPF for awhile
no longer know how to
create a button in code.
And this to me is
if you've lost that skill,
there's something wrong. So what,
what is the responsibility of
XAML? What is this monster
behind? Cause as we move
towards, I like I use
them a lot and I'm,
I'm, I'm a, in one
sense, I am as AML
fiend, I like doing things
in XAML that nobody else
has done in XAML. I
did a complete clock application
in XAML, which it was
very, very hard. Cause you
XAML can't perform arithmetic and
I needed to perform arithmetic.
And you just did this
as a, as an exercise.
Yeah. It's in, it's in
the, I did a blog
post about it and I
did it in, I put
it in my book and
basically because XAML itself, can't
do arithmetic. I use transform
groups to perform arithmetic. So
I basically set up a
groups of transforms. And when
you set up a group
of transforms, they multiply by
each other and a bunch
of data bindings and, and
the whole thing was done
in XAML that's really a
macho programming thing. Right. You
know, I like the way
I can, XAML mimics the
layout structure of a window.
And I, I try to
do as much in Zambia
as I can with, with
that layout. And with data
bindings, you need code for
event handling, but I, there
are cases where it's just,
it just makes more sense
to define an animation in
code and apply it. And
you it's, you learn which
way to go after years
of experience. And there's no
right, because this is programming
because this is part art,
as well as engineering. There
is no right answer as
well. What would you say
that it's a good idea
to create custom controls in
code and then express them
as animal. That that's the
real power. There is a
very popular technique, both in
WPF and silver light of
a user control, which is
you derive from user control.
And it's basically a layout
of other controls and elements
that define the visual appearance
of the control. I, I,
that is a very useful
technique. On the other hand,
I've done things like if
you want to extend a
scroll bar, if you want
to add a couple more
properties to a scroll bar,
it's good to do that
in code and then define
the visual appearance with a
template again, in XAML anything
that's very visual is proper
to do in XAML. Hi,
this is Scott Hanselman from
another parallel universe, got to
tell you about some of
our things our sponsors are
doing. They make this free
podcast possible. If you're developing
a new line of business
application, you've probably tried the
latest version of server light.
Now you can get even
better results by combining the
functionality and server Lite for
beta, with some of the
richness or the third party
controls from our friends at
Tellerik. They're the first vendors
to offer native support for
the server Lite for beta
and their rad controls. You've
got a new server Lite
for CTP suite of these
controls. They let you tap
into the frameworks, great potential.
You got native right mouse
click and all the new
features, the server line there's
38 controls that give you
all these features. You can
start building those compelling line
of business applications right away.
I encourage you to check
those products out at tellerik.com/silverlight
and, you know, thank Tellerik
for supporting Don and rock
supporting Hansel minutes on their
Facebook fan page at facebook.com/tellerik.
Now back to the show.
So speaking of To, to
things that are proper and
correct, as we move into
windows phone seven, I'm starting
to realize that they really
are Hold us to this
aesthetic before you You'd make
green buttons and purple backgrounds.
And nobody said anything. Well,
there is a good reason
for imposing a particular aesthetic
on the phone. And it
is, this phones are very
sensitive to battery life. You
want to extend that battery
as much as possible. These,
these phones, the, the are
using Oh, led technology, organic
LEDs. I don't think they're
actually made from living things.
I don't know, but one
of the things about, Oh,
Oh, LEDs is that they
have longer. They, they don't
use as much power as
conventional LEDs, but only if
the screen is very dark.
If the screen is very
light, they will use more
power than a conventional led.
If the screen is very
dark, they will use a
lot less power. So this
is what is, what is
the general rule when our
aesthetics follows from our technology
limitations. But this, this is
why the aesthetic is, is
on the phone is very
dark backgrounds with this light
spindly text. And I think
that the, this Metro thing
that they've created, it also
takes advantage of, We realized
that there were things off
screen, and this might be
a little bit of, You
know, Joe yuck of said
that users Will never scroll.
And I think what was
underlying that because y'all come
in as one, a usability
engineer was that you just
cannot conceive of objects off
screen, right? Just like babies
for a very long time.
Never understand that there are
objects when you take it
out of their sight of
vision, but now fast forward,
the entire world has matured.
They're saying that the phone
is a window on a
larger Panorama. There's an interesting
analogy. When we're in motion,
pictures were first created. People
thought that audiences wouldn't wouldn't
follow cuts. They wouldn't be
able to understand when, when
the movie cut between two
different scenes that they were
actually happening simultaneously. And of
course, audiences pick this up
right away. So yeah, the,
the, exactly that, that the,
they are, they do have
a layout on the phone
that implies horizontal scrolling because
things go off to, off
to the side. And I
it's, it's very interesting partially
because it's the whole look
of windows phone is so
unlike any other smartphone in
the market, it's really gonna
distinguish itself in, in, in
that aspect as well. What
do you think about the
decision for them to make
it only managed code? I
think that's an excellent decision.
I am very much in
favor of managed code. I,
that may sound odd from
somebody who started off in
assembly. This is the part
where I say you have
all people. Me of all
people I, I started off
with, well, I really started
off with four Tran, but
I spent a lot of
time with assembly language on
the ADHD and the Z
80 and the 80, 86.
I spent a lot of
time with C. I went
on because of my assembly
language background. I was very
good with pointers and C,
but I have, even though
I was a little reluctant
skeptical, I have come around
to see the wisdom of
managed code. It just, there
are certain types of errors,
certain types of common bugs
that are just impossible and
managed code. And, and to
me, this, this is the
most important aspect of it.
It's the programs are a
lot easier to get running
and a lot easier to
debug. And they're just not
as buggy as, as traditional
programs. So this move to
manage code is something that
I am very much in
favor of. Do you think
that when, when people say,
well, I'm frustrated that they
won't let me code in
C plus plus or C
on this phone. That there's
is that rooted in fear,
and I'm assuming fear that
I will be unable to
do so Partially. I heard
a lot of this in
the early days of.net, that
there were certain things people
wanted to do partially with
string handling, because strings are
immutable in, in, in.net and,
and some certain kinds string
handling become very clumsy. There
is a lot of reluctance
among the game, developers, gaming
developers to move, to manage
code because, and they have
more of an argument because
they're accustomed to getting very
low down next to the
hardware and they are not
accustomed to garbage collection. And
garbage collection is a serious
problem in, in games, because
if you are, you're going
at a frame rate of
30 frames per second, if
you are allocating from the
local heap 30 times a
second, there's going to be
a garbage collection. And when
there's a garbage collection, your
game's going to stutter and
that's not a good thing.
So a lot of the
move to manage code in,
in games has been an
awareness of the garbage collection
problem and avoid a lot
of the types of, of
objects that you would normally
be allocating 30 times a
second, during your name loop
in X and a, a
lot of these are structures
rather than classes. So they
don't get allocated from the
local heat, but you still
have to be aware of,
of this problem. And you
just have to avoid local
heap allocations on and, and
that'll help that'll that'll solve
the garbage collection problem. And
couldn't you pre allocate. That's
another, that's another technique. You
can have a cache of
objects that are pre ready
for you and reuse them.
Yes, yes. There are, there
are numerous techniques to deal
with this problem, but it's,
I can understand why it'd
be afraid. Yes. It's something
that, that game developers are,
are, are nervous about and,
and, and rightfully so. They're
going to have to learn
some new techniques. So if
I want to learn how
to program windows phone, then
I'm going to buy the
book. I'm going to buy
the pencil book. Thank you,
which well, you don't have
to buy it. Actually, this
book is going to the
completed book will be available
later this year as a
free download and the first
hundred and 50 pages that
I've written are available now
as a free download. If
you go to my website,
Charles pencil.com on homepage, you'll
have links. There are links
provided. There's also a link
to the PDF file on
the, the portal to the
windows phone developer page, which
is developer that windows, phone.com
very important website to know
about. So it's free, it's
free. It's absolutely free. Now
it's just a book or
a pamphlet. It's a book
excerpt that I finished in
time for mix is 150
pages. That's an extra. So
we're looking at a hundred.
This is a real book.
It's a full size. It's
going to be well, the
contract, the contract says a
big spine, but virtually speaking,
because it's a download a
big giant PDF or XPS
file. The contract calls for
400 pages. I frankly, I
think it's going to be
the original contract for programming
windows call for a book
of about 400 pages. And
the first edition was more
like 800. We'll see, we'll
see. I, I love writing
books. I love par partially.
It's it's the, the, the,
the process of building the
book from, from nothing from
just words, but it's, it's
the challenges of organizing the
material into a, a narrative
that the reader can follow
from beginning to end. Unfortunately,
although in the past, people
used to read books like
this. A lot of people
tell me about their experience
of reading programming windows from
cover to cover. Unfortunately, people
don't do that much anymore,
but it's still, I'm not
sure I can write a
book otherwise. And for, for
a reader who jumps into
it, just to learn one
little topic, I don't know.
Do you, do you struggle
with the concept? I mean,
writing a book is as
much about you putting pen
to paper, as it is
about effectively absorb getting someone
to absorb that information into
the brain. And because of
the way time operates, they
have to do it in
a fairly linear fashion. And
they may be flipping around
in the book, but by
flipping around the book and
reading chapters in a different
order, they're simply reading a
different book. Yes, there is.
I take a lot of
time and, and thought to
put my chapters in the
right order. Each chapter builds
on the chapter previously, I
try to pace the introduction
of materials. So it doesn't
overwhelm the reader. You also
want to keep up the
reader's interest, but there is
in learning programming. There is
a point at which you
need to start, and the
knowledge is accumulated over, over,
over a long period of
time. And I like to
mimic that process. It's, it's
a little odd doing it
these days, because I am
well aware that a lot
of programmers simply don't learn
like that anymore. Partially it's
because they don't have time.
There are a lot of,
lots of new technologies you
have to keep up with.
And it's, it's not like
back in the early nineties
where every ms. Dos developer
realized I am going to
need to learn windows. And
this is going to be
something I'll be using for
the next 10 or 20
years and enhance, I can
afford spending the time to
learn it properly in a,
in a tutorial manner. That's
a really interesting point because
you're saying that people may
be less interested in investing
deeply in a technology if
they can't trust that it's
there tomorrow. Exactly. And the
technologies change so quickly and
there's so many of them
and, and our development tools
have made it very easy.
If you, if you boot
up visual studio, you can
have a silver light or
an exit and a program
running doesn't do much, but
you can run it just
by pressing a five. So
how are you going to,
how are you going to
write this book? I haven't
read the excerpt yet, but
you have to assume a
couple of things. You have
to assume that reader a
as a programmer professionals using
several I for years, and
that reader B is a
19 year old. Who's never
programmed his life. I, I,
I assume that the reader
is a programmer. I have
to do that. I assume
that the reader knows.net. And
C-sharp, if not, I have
a online book on my
website called if this is
a rather shorter book, it's
called.net book zero. And it's,
it's an introduction to.net and
C sharp for the C
or C plus plus programmer.
Beyond that, I can't do
anything. I, I start off
assuming the book is going
to be both about Silverlight
and which are the two
programming interfaces on windows phone.
And I start off with
I'm covering both of them.
I start off assuming that
the reader doesn't know either
one. That's what I wanted
to know. So you were
assuming that they don't know
XAML they don't know WPF.
If your readers haven't been
here at mix, they might
have not have heard the
exciting news about that windows
phone will support both Silverlight
and SNA. So a silver
light will be used mostly
for what we think of
as applications and utilities, calculators,
and, and anything with a
list box will be silver
light. Whereas Aksana is, is
for games, two D and
three D games. And you're
going to cover both of
them are going to cover
both of them. So it's
two books. It's we had
a discussion about this, whether
it should really be two
books rather than one book,
because there will be programmers.
There will be programmers who
will never learn X and
a for the phone. And
they'll be programmers will never
learn civil light for the
phone. I like to see
programmers learn both. I think
that if you're going to
be a good windows phone
programmer, you should, you should
know both. You should know
when to use Silverlight. You
should know when to use
a, you can use some
of the framework from
and your Silverlight app and
vice versa, visually all your,
the two, the two output
paradigms are very different. So
either your app is a
Silverlight app or an X
and a app. You can't
mix them visually at this
time that may come sometime
in the future, but they
are very two different paradigms
and they are different enough
so that you can jump
back and forth between them
without getting confused. Really? Yes.
And, and that they, they
they're, they're both in.net. They
share core libraries. If I'm
going to open a file
and run around. And I
got, I don't know, I
don't wanna run an isolated
storage and, and read data.
I'm using same API. Next
to know, if I want
to talk to the microphone,
I have to get the
raw feed from the microphone.
Yes, there are, there is
an X and a classes
to do that. And you
can access those from your
silver light app. So w
I I'd have to plead
ignorance on X and a
cause I know a lot
of people who've done it.
I have friends who have
put out X and eight
games, but I've never really
sat down and looked at
that. Can you give me
a brief sense of what,
what is the next day
application look like? How do
I get things on the
screen? Okay. In, in an
app, you're dealing almost
IX. Let's, let's stick to
two D at the moment.
And the next app you're
dealing entirely with bitmaps even,
and they're called textures. Even
your, your text is a
bit map. You go back
to bitmap style text, and
you have a method that
you override called draw. And
during this method, this draw
method is called 30 times
a second, which is the
frame rate on the windows
phone, on a, on a
PC. It would be called
60 times a second or
70 times a second. And
it's, you basically draw your
entire screen at that point,
all your bitmaps right out
to the screen to prepare
for that draw method. You
have another method called update
where you perform all the
calculations. These two methods are
separated because of some timing
issues. If you can't quite
keep up with the frame
rate, but you're, you're basically
on a frame by frame
basis. You're, you're doing all
your calculations for all the,
the locations of all the
little sprites on the screen.
You're also polling for input
during the, the, the update
method. So it's very much
throwing basic bitmaps and pulling
for input. Whereas in, in
Silverlight you all your input
comes through events and you
are even though somewhere in
the composition level, things are
being redrawn at this screen
refresh rate. You really just
put them there once and
they stay there. It's a
retain mode graphics system. So
if I'm spitting out this,
this entire screen, and I
mean, my, my knowledge of
windows graphics, programming actually ended
GDI data. So both, both
Silverlight necks and they are
very different from GDI. Okay.
Well, see, I was going
to ask there that you're
saying, and I'm thinking to
myself as an old school
program, like it, my devil
buffering, do I just, this
it does it handle it
for me? There is a
is, is double buffered.
Yes. Yes. You are writing
to what's called a backup
buffer. And then that is
updated to the screen, the
actual screen It's very much
a, a raw, you have
complete control of what's going
on. Yes. Which is what
game programmers like. Okay. So,
you know, for the person
who wishes that they had
C plus plus, maybe they
really just need to check
out. Excellent. Yeah. Yeah. I,
I, I have enjoyed XMA
programming precisely because I I've,
I've feel very, very low
in, in, in the technological
hierarchy and that the book
is going to include not
just graphics and Silverlight and
actually, but as you can
also include some of the
more services based things are
going to be able to
talk to him. There's a
lot, there's a real, there's
a real, a web service
orientation to the windows phone
and including Xbox live. I
am currently discussing with, with
my publisher, who is Microsoft
press, about stuff that I
won't put in a book
to allow other authors to
give better treatment to it.
And I am considering I
have not yet made the
decision, but I am considering
that maybe the programs in
my book will be very
self contained and will not
be using web services. Aside
from there's a location service
that I just ubiquitous services,
intrinsic services that are part
of the phone, right? Well,
location is in the, is
a, is considered to be
a web service, but it
is, it is there's there's
actual classes for, for location.
And it does speak over
the wire in some way.
Yeah. The location is interesting.
It's it's called a GPS,
which I believe means assisted
GPS. And the, the phone
is a GPS device. So
it can get GPS information,
but GPS is often slow.
It takes a while to
get the information. It's no
good endorse. So they use
other techniques to help out
with GPS, including wifi. They
try to figure out location
from wifi. And I try
to figure out location from
a cell towers. And you
can choose whether you want
fast location. That's not so
accurate or are slow location.
That's very accurate. And the
GPS is considered slow but
accurate, but definitely it seems
like an important topic to
cover. Yes. Programming windows, phone
seven series network edition is
almost a whole book in
itself. Absolutely cloud and data.
And I can see your,
I can see your challenge.
Well, this has been fantastic,
sir. I really appreciate you
sitting down with me today.
Oh, thank you very much.
I enjoyed it. So you
can make sure that you
check out Charles, his blog@charlespencil.com.
You can download this book
and you can also go
and by code and some
of the other great books
of these bots, as well
as checking out the windows
phone developer portal@developer.windows, phone.com. This
has been another episode of
Hansel minutes, and I'll see
you again next week. .